# Leader Election

Distributed Systems need to make decisions and take actions in a uniform, quick and decisive manner. However, independently coordinating a large number of nodes has inherent problems, such as straining the network and high decision-making times. Leader Election is a solution to these problems. This project intents to create a simulation environment where different Leader Election protocols may be tested using the infrastructure presented in this report. The implementation was developed in Python, resulting in a simulation environment that mimics an Ad-Hoc network where nodes run in separate processes and can be crashed to simulate network topology changes. Furthermore, the simulation environment also provides crucial data, such as the number of messages exchanged and the time it took to elect a leader. Validating the simulator required the implementation of two protocols, the Bully election and the Invitation election protocol. The results obtained during testing demonstrate the success of this simulation environment and showcase the differences between the two protocols. For more details on this project, please read "SDIS - report.pdf", which is a report written for the Distributed Systems course at the Faculty of Engineering of the University of Porto, in the Master's of Eletrical and Computer Engineering Degree.


Design and Analysis of a Leader Election Algorithm for Mobile Ad Hoc Networks, based on Vasudevan, S.; Kurose, J.; Towsley, D., "Design and analysis of a leader election algorithm for mobile ad hoc networks," Network Protocols, 2004. ICNP 2004. Proceedings of the 12th IEEE International Conference on , vol., no., pp.350,360, 5-8 Oct. 2004
